# webpack-upload-plugin

## Intro

This is a plugin for [webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack).

The main aim is to provide a tool to upload js/css files used in html to cdn, and then replace the reference with the corresponding cdn url.

## Environment requirement

node >= 7.4.0

## Install

```bash
npm i -D webpack-upload-plugin
```

## Notice

- This plugin does not provide a service as uploading to cdn. In fact, it actually depends on such service.
- This plugin is for webpack >= 2.
- For webpack@4, set `optimization.minimize` to `false`!
- This plugin _doesn't_ work well with `UglifyJs` plugin! Use `beforeUpload` if you want to compress anyway.
- Pay extra attention to your `publicPath` field of `webpack.config.js`, `''` is likely the best choice.

## Dependency

`webpack-upload-plugin` relies on the existence a `cdn` object with an `upload` method described as below.

```typescript
type cdnUrl = string
interface cdnRes {
  [localPath: string]: cdnUrl
}
// this is what cdn package looks like
interface cdn {
  upload: (localPaths: string[]) => Promise<cdnRes>
}
```

If typescript syntax is unfamiliar, here is another description in vanilla javascript.

```js
/**
 * @param {string[]} localPath: list of paths of local files
 * @return Promise<cdnRes>: resolved Promise with structure like {localPath: cdnUrl}
 */
function upload(localPath) {
  // code
}
const cdn = {
  upload
}
```

## Use case

### Basic one

For a simple project with such structure:

```txt
+-- src
|   +-- assets
|   |   +-- avatar.png
|   +-- index.js
|   +-- index.css
+-- dist
+-- index.html
+-- webpack.config.js
```

```js
// in webpack.config.js
const path = require('path')
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin')
const MiniCssExtractPlugin = require('mini-css-extract-plugin')
const UploadPlugin = require('webpack-upload-plugin')
const cdn = require('xxx-cdn')

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    filename: 'bundle.js',
    publicPath: ''
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        loader: 'babel-loader'
      },
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [MiniCssExtractPlugin.loader, 'css-loader']
      },
      {
        test: /\.(png|jpe?g|gif|svg)(\?.*)?$/,
        loader: 'url-loader',
        options: {
          limit: 10000
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  optimization: {
    minimize: false // important! important! important!
  },
  plugins: [
    new MiniCssExtractPlugin({
      filename: '[name].css',
      chunkFilename: '[id].css'
    }),
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
      filename: 'index.html',
      template: 'index.html',
      inject: true
    }),
    new UploadPlugin(cdn)
  ]
}
```

> For webpack v3 users, use `extract-text-webpack-plugin` instead of `mini-css-extract-plugin`

### Complex one with Server Template

Run webpack in `build`, then copy all emitted files from `build/dist` to `project/src`.

Public can only access files from `project/public`

```txt
+-- project
| +-- src
| +-- public
+-- build
| +-- src
| | +-- assets
| | |   +-- avatar.png
| | +-- index.js
| | +-- index.css
| +-- dist
| +-- index.html
| +-- webpack.config.js
```

```js
// only focus on WebpackUploadPlugin here
{
  plugins: [
    new UploadPlugin(cdn, {
      src: path.resolve(__dirname, '..', 'project/src'),
      dist: path.resolve(__dirname, '..', 'project/public'),
      staticDir: path.resolve(__dirname, '..', 'project/src'),
      dirtyCheck: true
    })
  ]
}
```

> Make sure `WebpackUploadPlugin` is after any copy-related plugins in `plugins` field.

> If in `project/public`, there are different prefix from `publicPath` you passed to webpack, then use `replaceFn` to remove such prefix.

```js
const config = {
  replaceFn(content, location) {
    return path.extname(location) === '.html'
      ? content.replace(prefix, '')
      : content
  }
}
```

> If the copy process takes a long time, use `waitFor` to make sure only start uploading when things are settled.

## Configuration

In webpack.config.js

```js
const WebpackUploadPlugin = require('webpack-upload-plugin')
const cdn = require('some-cdn-package')
module.exports = {
  plugins: [new WebpackUploadPlugin(cdn, option)]
}
```

`option` is optional.

Valid fields for `option` are showed below:

### [`smartAssMode`=false]: boolean

If switch on, we assume that all files needed is in the `output.path` of your webpack config file. No more `src`, `dist`, `staticDir` are needed (and will be ignored if being set).

> This is an _opinionated_ setup. Under the hood, `src`, `dist` and `staticDir` are equivalently set to the same as `output.path`

> The reason for this field is that very likely, files that need to be uploaded are not all generated by webpack bundling but something like copying. In such cases, those copied files cannot be detected through the webpack config, and hence won't be uploaded automatically. With this feature, your life would be easier.

### [`src`]: string

> try `smartAssMode` first

Where your valid raw template files would appear (with reference to local js/css files). Default to be where html files would be emitted to based on your webpack configuration.

For templates not dynamically emitted by webpack, eg, files like `php`, `tpl`, `phtml` and so on that are managed by some server logic not client one, this field could be used.

> Use _absolute_ path

### [`dist`]: string

> try `smartAssMode` first

Where to emit final template files. Only use this when there is a need to separate origin outputs with cdn ones. Default to be same as `src`.

Think in this way:

template from src -> template with cdn reference -> template to dist

Use `dist` only if the third step is needed.

> Use _absolute_ path

### [`urlCb`]: (cdnUrl: string, localPath: string) => string

Adjust cdn url accordingly. Cdn url would be passed in, and you need to return a string.

```js
const url = 'http://domain.com/cdn/bundle.js'
const urlCb = input => input.replace(/^https?/, 'https')
```

### [`resolve`]: string[]

Type of templates needed to match. In case you have a project with php, smarty, or other template language instead of html. Default to `['html']`

Again, for projects using server language template, like `php`, you could set `resolve` to `['php', 'phtml']`

### [`staticDir`]: string | string[]

> try `smartAssMode` first

If static files (js/css/images etc) emitted by webpack is not what you want, or not enough(normally happens when you need to copy all resources emitted by webpack to another directory), then set `staticDir` to the directory that contains all your desired resource files (js/css/images etc).

> Use _absolute_ path

### [`beforeUpload`]: (fileContent: string, fileLocation: string) => string

_Compression_ can be done here. Two arguments are `fileContent` and `fileLocation` (with extension name of course). You need to return the compression result as string.

```js
// if you want to compress js before upload
const UglifyJs = require('uglify-js')
const path = require('path')
const beforeUpload = (content, location) => {
  if (path.extname(location) === '.js') {
    return UglifyJs.minify(content).code
  }
  return content
}
```

### [`replaceFn`]: (fileContent: string, location: string) => string

For some complex (ancient) projects, you may have multiple `publicPath` or corresponding concepts. To handle such cases accordingly, you can pass a `replaceFn` function, which will receive two parameters, which are `fileContent` and `location` in that order. `fileContent` would be file in string format with local resources reference. `location` is the location of `fileContent` on your file system. This function will be called when plugin start to replace local reference. The string `replaceFn` returns will represent the desired `publicPath`, which will be used as the input template to replace all local reference with cdn ones.

```js
// in your latest webpack.config.js
module.exports = {
  output {
    publicPath: 'public/static'
  }
}
```

```html
<!-- in an ancient template file -->
<!-- bundle.js is actually emitted by webpack -->
<!-- but some copy action involved in later sometime -->
<!-- public/static/bundle.js -> public/js/bundle.js -->
<!-- but this src attribute cannot be changed due to some weird reason -->
<script src="public/js/bundle.js"></script>
```

In such case, `staticDir` could be useful. Or you can use `replaceFn` as followed:

```js
const replaceFn = (content, location) => {
  const oldPublicReg = /src="public\/js/
  if (oldPublicReg.test(content)) {
    return content.replace(oldPublicReg, `src="public/static"`)
  }
}
```

In this way, `public/static/bundle.js` will be uploaded before it get moved to `public/js`, and the reference replacement stay accurate.

### [`waitFor`]: () => Promise<\*>

A function that returns a Promise. The plugin will wait for the Promise to resolve and then start everything.

```js
// things won't start till 1000ms later
const waitFor = new Promise(resolve => {
  setTimeout(resolve, 1000)
})
```

### [`dirtyCheck=false`]: boolean

For cases where chunk file can also be entry file, set `dirtyCheck` to `true` to make sure entry file would be updated properly.

### [`onFinish`]: () => any

Called when everything finished. You can further play with files here.

```js
const onFinish = () => {
  console.log('just want to print this')
}
```

### [`onError`]: (e: Error) => any

Called when encounter any error.

### [`logLocalFiles=false`]: boolean

Whether to print all uploading file names during the process

### [`passToCdn`]: object

Extra config to pass to `cdn.upload` method. Something Like `cdn.upload(location, passToCdn)`.

```js
// if your original cdn package has API like this
const cdn = require('some-cdn-package')
const passToCdn = {
  https: true
}
cdn.upload(files, passToCdn)
```

### [`enableCache=true`]: boolean

Enable cache to speed up. Default to `false`.

### [`cacheLocation`]: string

Directory to emit the upload cache file. Use this when you want to manage the cache file by any VCS.

```js
const path = require('path')
const cacheLocation = path.resolve(__dirname, 'cacheDirectory')
```

### [`sliceLimit`]: number

Uploading files is not done by once. By using `sliceLimit`, you can limit the number of files being uploaded at once.

### [`forceCopyTemplate=true`]: boolean

Force to copy generated templates from `src` to `dist` even if no cdn Url has been matched. Default to `true`.

> When set to `false`, the generated templates will still be copied from `src` to `dist` as long as if no corresponding file exists in `dist`.

### [`asyncCSS`=true]: boolean

Try to handle async CSS files emitted by `mini-css-extract-plugin`.

Viola! That's all : )

## License

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) 2017-present, Yuchen Liu
